i can just make out its
mouth and i think it's a tapir that's a
long nose
the tapers look sort of like a funny
looking elephant
see if i get closer
tapias are the largest forest animal in
central america
they're not strictly nocturnal but they
prefer to forage for food in the dark
when it's cooler
papers are actually really well suited
for nighttime activity so they don't see
very well at nighttime
but they hear really well they've got
these big goofy ears
that can move around they can hear
really well
their hearing helps detect predators
and their acute sense of smell helps
them identify 100 types of plant
now the reason they eat so many
different types of plants is because
a lot of the leaves in the rainforest
are actually toxic
and so in order to have a balanced diet
they eat a bunch of different things
so they don't get too much of one toxin
and they can process it
because of their size tapias have few
natural predators
but humans hunt them for their meat
they're very very shy usually there must
be absolutely no poaching
in this forest because he's not afraid
of me
at all
oh my god this thing is walking
right towards me
i've never been to such a big animal
whoa oh my god my heart is beating so
fast
i've worked in central america for over
10 years i've never seen a tapir
i've always wanted to it's incredible
bryson is blind without his camera but
the tapia is completely at home in the
dark
when sight fails other senses compensate
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign